+++
title="bio"
+++

{% alert(type="note") %}
This is my life story to date. For a more concise career summary, see <a href="/Eric%20Barch%20Resume.pdf">my resume</a>.
{% end %}

I grew up in a sleepy Connecticut hamlet called Simsbury, the Platonic ideal of a New England small town. A river runs through its center, and the hills turn bright orange in fall. Just south of Massachusetts, its residents have a Bostonian taste for Dunkin’ coffee and Patriots football.

I dabbled in a bunch of extracurriculars, but Boy Scouts was the most impactful. At the peak of my involvement, I was leaving home almost every weekend to explore a new corner of the Northeast. Together with my best friends, I spent my youth conquering regional high points and seeing whether I could survive the weekend with nothing but the clothes on my back. I developed a love for the outdoors, leadership, self-sufficiency, and problem-solving.

In high school, I took up running. I wasn't particularly talented, but I liked the mental challenge and the camaraderie of the team. I made Cross Country Captain my senior year.

During the summers, I worked as a camp counselor at a local farm. The staff was close. After work, we would cool off at a rope swing we hung by the river, or pile into my Jeep and go off-roading.

It was a good childhood — the quintessential American boyhood. Very Huck Finn.

I was always very driven and did well in school. When it was time for college, I chose William & Mary. I wasn't sure what I wanted to do, but politics was one interest and W&M had a good political science program. To keep my options open, I double majored in Economics and Government. I studied very little, but managed decent grades by cramming. I spent most of the rest of my time on my fraternity, which, although I don’t view it as the most productive pursuit in retrospect, did advance my (immature, mildly hedonistic) goals at that age.

Graduation came and I was still searching for a calling. I was fiercely ambitious, but my energy was unfocused because I lacked a clear definition of success. Ever prone to defining it in terms of others, I looked around to see what my smartest peers were doing. Everyone in my mostly-Greek, liberal-arts-educated circle seemed to be pursuing finance or law. It was too late for the finance recruiting cycle, so I applied to paralegal openings thinking I would go to law school in a year or two. I landed a job at the white-shoe law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher and moved to New York City.

New York was exciting and exhausting. My hours were unpredictable. A slow day was often upended by a close-of-business fire drill that required my presence at the office into the wee hours of the morning. It became clear that a career as a corporate lawyer wasn’t the ticket to success I had envisioned. I didn’t mind the intensity and hard work, but the reward (or lack thereof) wasn’t proportional. I knew I didn't want to be a wage worker forever, but in law, even the partners — the ones who have "made it" — bill hourly.

I had been at Willkie for about a year when a recruiter reached out with a role at the legendary private equity firm Apollo. I would be a "Legal Analyst" (read: paralegal) on the public funds team, assisting with corporate governance for several of Apollo’s public credit vehicles. These funds were subject to stricter regulatory processes, and my job would be to assist with that additional regulatory burden: preparing for and administering required quarterly board meetings, effectuating approval for ad-hoc deals that required elevated review, performing ad-hoc filings, compliance bullshit, etc. Idk come back to this. I didn't really understand any of that at 22. I saw a potential stepping stone from my bullshit paralegal job into high finance  (pr: fuh-NANCE), and I took it.

It was a better fit than Willkie. The personalities were bigger. I liked the prestige, or at least the prestige that I imagined. I liked going to work on the 37th floor of 9 West 57th Street every morning, a storied office building with an unobstructed view of Central Park. It made me feel legit. Even though my role was decidedly back-office (it was described to me during the interview process as "middle-office", a disgusting approximation used by people who are fooling themselves into thinking they don't work a back office role — people who are more back-office than back office), I felt like I had potential, like I could climb the ladder and prove to people that I could do more than what I initially signed on to do. I grinded there for a few years, including the Covid years when New York was shut down and a lot of careers were on hold. By the end of that period, a lot had changed. I still had my ambition, but I was jaded about my role. I felt pigeon-holed in legal (can you believe they made the paralegal do legal work??), when all of the action and glamor happened in the front office. There were some key senior departures that made me think it was less likely that I find a path to the front office. I felt like the only way up in this career was to get a law degree or an MBA. I didn't have any interest in either of those options anymore after seeing senior people in the careers that those degrees would lead to. Finance tends to be more value extractive than value creative, and I've always been a creative person. I have this thing when I realize that I'm not going to rise to the top of an organization or be exceptional, the whole endeavor becomes not worth it for me.
